[Term Entry] Python Built-in Function: .id() (#2486)
Codecademy/docs: content/python/concepts/built-in-functions/id/id.md

---
Title: 'id()'

> Description: 'The id() function gives a unique number for any object in Python. This number is the location of the object in the computer’s memory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Gives a unique number for any object in Python.'
```
Descriptions should be short, and function terms should start with a verb like "Returns" etc.

> This will be consistent for the duration of the object's lifetime'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Delete this line

Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Data Science'
  
Tags: 
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Id'
  - 'Objects'
  - 'Numbers'
  - 'Memory'
  - 'Debugging'

CatalogContent: 
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
  - 'paths/data-science'
---

> The **id() function** gives a unique number for any object in Python. This number is the location of the object in the computer’s memory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`id()`** function gives a unique number for any object in Python. This number is the location of the object in the computer’s memory.
```

This will be consistent for the duration of the object's lifetime 

## Syntax

```pseudo
id(object)
```

> The parameter can be any given object such as a string, list, number, dictionary etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The parameter, `object`, can be any given object such as a string, list, number, dictionary etc.
```

## Example

> In the example below, when the 2 **immutable** variables are executed via the id() function, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the example below, when two **immutable** variables are executed using the id() function,
```

> In the example below, when the 2 **immutable** variables are executed via the id() function, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the example below, when two **immutable** variables are executed using the id() function, 
```

> they return the same value pointing to the same location in memory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the returned value is the same, indicating the same memory location.
```

> they return the same value pointing to the same location in memory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
both return the same value pointing to the same location in memory.
```

> This is because immutable objects don't change. Let's use the immutable **string** object to demonstrate this: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is due to the immutability of objects. The immutable string object will be used to demonstrate this:
```

> This is because immutable objects don't change. Let's use the immutable **string** object to demonstrate this: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is because immutable objects don't change. The following example uses the immutable `string` object to demonstrate this: 
```

 ```py 
color = 'green'

favColor = 'green'

print(id(color))

print(id(favColor))
```

> This example results in the following output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example results something resembling the following output:
```
The reader's output will be different if they run the same code.

> ```shell

Reviewer: ````suggestion

```shell
````
There should be a blank line before the code block.

> # Output of color: 140307997340656

Reviewer: ```suggestion
140307997340656
```
The output does not produce comments.

> # Output of favColor: 140307997340656

Reviewer: ```suggestion
140307997340656
```

```

## Example 2

> In this next example, we will execute the id() function with 2 **mutable** variables. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this next example, the id() function will be executed with two **mutable** variables.
```
try to avoid the use of pronouns, its against the doc guidelines. I also do this mistake a lot don't worry you'll get use to it.

> In this next example, we will execute the id() function with 2 **mutable** variables. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this next example, the id() function will be executed with two mutable variables. 
```

> Take note of how they will return different values and 2 separate unique ids. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Take note of how the function will return different values and two separate unique ids.
```

> This is because mutable objects are able to change. Let's use the mutable **list** object to demonstrate this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is due to the mutability of objects. The mutable **list** object can be used to demonstrate this:
```

> This is because mutable objects are able to change. Let's use the mutable **list** object to demonstrate this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is because mutable objects are able to change. The mutable `list` object can be used to demonstrate this:
```

```py 
animals = ['lions', 'tigers', 'bears']

favAnimals = ['lions', 'tigers', 'bears']

print(id(animals)); 

print(id(favAnimals)); 
```

> This example results in the following output:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This example results in the following output:

```

> This example results in the following output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example results in something resembling the following output:

```

```shell

> # Output of animals: 140279020355392

Reviewer: ```suggestion
140279020355392
```

> # Output of favAnimals: 140279020204352

Reviewer: ```suggestion
140279020204352
```

```

## Codebyte Example 

> The following example displays the output of the immutable **number** object:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example displays the output of the immutable `number` object:
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Try not to leave any white spaces :)

```codebyte/python
hello = 30;
goodbye = 30;

print(id(hello))
print(id(goodbye))
```

> ## Codebyte Example 2

Reviewer: We generally have only one codebyte, so I'd pick one or the other.

Author: I have deleted the second codebyte so now it's officially only one! 😊

> The following example displays the output of the mutable **dictionary** object:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example displays the output of the mutable `dictionary` object:
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```codebyte/python
fruit = {"name": "Banana", "color": "yellow"}
favFruit = {"name": "Banana", "color": "yellow"}

print(id(fruit))
print(id(favFruit))
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The output for the above code will be:

```shell
4838005184
4854166464
```
```
Try to attach output for the code down below it.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
